Add changelog for initial open beta release soup build (#208)
StrataSource/Wiki: docs/misc/p2ce-changelogs/2026-04-17.md

# Portal 2: Community Edition - April 17th, 2026 Update
Initial Open Beta release build.

## Additions (13)

> - [Campaign System](https://wiki.stratasource.org/modding/p2ce-campaigns/getting-started/00-getting-started) merged into stable.

Reviewer: I’d generally avoid what I’d call like “history trivia” in changelogs. So “merged to stable” means quite little compared to like “Implemented campaign system for managing multiple campaigns of maps with UI and saves from addons” (or something better worded, this is just an example)

Author: addressed in 71409dc

> - Added a new KeyValues3-based subtitles system that is based upon the more robust Panorama UI framework, featuring full support for HTML syntax

Reviewer: I don’t think it’s full HTML, right? Just “pano style XML”? @iamsirenstorm

Reviewer 2: Correct, it's Panorama-styled XML only with support for common HTML style tags (b, i), plus any specific Panorama additions, like `<font>`.

Author: addressed in f6f3e5e

>     - A dedicated script for migrating old KV1/HL2X-style captions has been added to the `sdk_tools` directory to help facilitate the transition to the new KV3 format

Reviewer: I’d just call them “legacy” or “kv1” instead of “kv1/hl2x”, as source engine just sort of is hl2 to some degree. So it doesn’t carry much info to say hl2x

Author: addressed in 71409dc

- Clustered lights now support volumetric lighting effects
- Added additional options for customising `npc_security_camera` decals, sounds, sprites and speed
- Added `ForceLookAt` input and `OnDetach` output to `npc_security_camera`
- Humanoid NPCs can now press Portal floor buttons like players
- Adhesion Gel-coated props can now stick to floor buttons.
- Added new flag to `point_push` to make it respect BlockLOS brushes during line-of-sight checks

> - Static props can now be given a custom color which will be baked into the BSP. Useful for matching gel pipes and signage to configured gel colours.

Reviewer: The original change line from the generator seems to be 
```
Added 'paint tinting' keyvalue to overlays and static props, which overrides the tint with the colour of the specified paint. Useful to match gel pipes and signage to configured gel colours
```
It’s missing the note on overlays. Not sure how in depth we want to describe colorvars, but given this doc is mostly for historical book keeping, @TeamSpen210 do you have any suggestions for how you want colorvars to be written on the record?

Author: addressed in 71409dc

- Added read support for the following packaging formats:
    - *Quake*/*HROT* `PAK` pack files
    - *Fairy Tale Busters* `APK` pack files

> 	- These should **not** be considered a viable substitute for VPK files

Reviewer: I mean they work and are as capable as the engine is for supporting zips. The real caveat is they cannot be used for workshop addons.
The intention is really just for mounting other game content if we want to be specific

Author: addressed in 71409dc

    - Missing caption logging is still connected to only `cc_showmissing`.

## Improvements (14)
- Merged SubRip (SRT) subtitles/"cheaptitles" parser into Panorama CC system
- In the workshop uploader finish popup, the link to the addon is now clickable
- Workshop Uploader: User-defined ignore paths/files in an addon are now relative to that addon's directory
- Cameras now have their cables in Portal 1 maps, and optionally in new custom maps
- Improve behavior when holding and releasing Adhesion Gel-coated props
- Fall back to older DPI modes on Windows if `PerMonitorV2` API is unsupported
- Added argument names to VScript functions in `script_help`, as well as the Wiki
- Startup videos should now render at a lower framerate
- Add 'Stop' button to sound fields in Hammer
- Apply `ent_text` autocomplete to all other `ent_*` debug info toggle commands
- Avoid overriding `$color` and `$alpha` when overlays are tinted
- The limits for overlay count, face count and render order have been mostly removed. Render order is now limited to 65536, while both others can have up to 2 billion

> - Connected the NPC actor gender system to KV3 captions. When applicable to NPCs who speak, gender postfixes will be searched first, then no-gender variant if it cannot be found. (Parity with VGUI CC system.)

Reviewer: If it’s parity with the existing system, does it need a special callout? Or are we doing something different worth documenting?

Author: Resolved internally

- Fixed crash when unloading map with `env_portal_credits`
- Fixed `game_text` not rendering under certain channels
- Fixed `npc_security_camera` not being grabbable with the Gravity Gun after being knocked off the wall
- Fixed packed AngelScript files not running on Windows clients
- Increased the limit of entities that `point_push` can potentially affect from 256 to 1024
- Fix Adhesion gel not overriding reflection/conversion gel in physics object interactions
- Allow Schrödinger cubes to hit themselves via portals
- Fixed PNG screenshots not looking right on map with HDR and postprocess effects
- Fixed invalid integer type in blob network bypass code
- VBSP can now transform `origin` and `angles` keyvalues for entities not present in FGD data
- Fix `parallax_obb` entities when inside instances.
- Fixed `color_correction_volume` not working at all
- Fixed crash with the netconsole
- Fixed missing 'slope scale' on `env_projectedtexture` entities.
- Fixed `ent_fire !name`s failing due to case-sensitivity.
- Fixed `game_text` not rendering under certain channels; a dedicated font has been introduced for this

## Removals (1)

> - Legacy KV1/HL2X-style VGUI captions (built via `captioncompiler`) will no longer function in-game as they have been fully deprecated. The server will now load KV3 caption files and use that to determine networking dispatch.

Reviewer: @iamsirenstorm can you check this section? As I believe the vgui style captions work? Or at least we have to keep the baggage around. Maybe you had fixed all this after initial release

Reviewer 2: For P2CE proper, the idea is that if KV3 captions are not found, it will fallback to legacy KV DAT version. That does not happen in current builds because it's locked behind a hidden ConVar, but I will be changing it so that the behavior described is what happens. This behavior is specifically for what captions are loaded. So if the Panorama CC panel is available, it can use either or. If the Panorama CC panel is **NOT** available, then VGUI layout is used instead and it can *only* work with KV DAT.

Author: compromise for this added in f6f3e5e

# Portal 2: Community Edition - April 17th, 2026 Update

Initial Open Beta release build.

## Additions (13)
- Implemented the [campaign system](https://wiki.stratasource.org/modding/p2ce-campaigns/getting-started/00-getting-started), allowing modders to create their own fully-fledged standalone campaigns or spin them off into their own individual sourcemods using a simple KV3-based pipeline.
- Clustered lights now support volumetric lighting effects
- Added additional options for customising `npc_security_camera` decals, sounds, sprites and speed
- Added `ForceLookAt` input and `OnDetach` output to `npc_security_camera`
- Humanoid NPCs can now press Portal floor buttons like players
- Adhesion Gel-coated props can now stick to floor buttons.
- Added new flag to `point_push` to make it respect BlockLOS brushes during line-of-sight checks

> - Static props and overlays can now be given a custom color which will be baked into the BSP. Useful for matching gel pipes and signage to configured gel colours.

Reviewer 3: Not sure about the `baked into the BSP` part, it's not a fixed colour. Original changelogs might be confusing since it was written to also apply to Momentum.
```suggestion
- Static props and overlays can now be dynamically tinted by the colour of a specific paint type. Useful for gel pipes and signage.
```

Author: done in 97ce13d
